Creating subgraphs edits & restructure (#758)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/developing/creating-a-subgraph.mdx

title: Creating a Subgraph
---

This detailed guide provides instructions to successfully create a subgraph.

A subgraph extracts data from a blockchain, processes it, and stores it for efficient querying via GraphQL.

![Defining a Subgraph](/img/defining-a-subgraph.png)

> > In order to use your subgraph on The Graph's decentralized network, you will need to [create an API key](/deploying/subgraph-studio-faqs/#2-how-do-i-create-an-api-key) in [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/apikeys/). It is recommended that you add signal to your subgraph with at least 3,000 GRT.

Reviewer: We can also mention signalling 3k GRT is good to attract 2-3 indexers.

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

### Install the Graph CLI

> To build and deploy a subgraph, you will need the [Graph CLI](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build and deploy a subgraph, you will need the [Graph CLI](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling/tree/main/packages/cli).
```

The Graph CLI is written in TypeScript, and you must have `node` and either `npm` or `yarn` installed to use it. Check for the [most recent](https://github.com/graphprotocol/graph-tooling/releases?q=%40graphprotocol%2Fgraph-cli&expanded=true) CLI version.

On your local machine, run one of the following commands:

> Using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
```

```bash
npm install -g @graphprotocol/graph-cli@latest
```

> Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
```

```bash
yarn global add @graphprotocol/graph-cli
```

- The `graph init` command can be used to set up a new subgraph project, either from an existing contract or from a demo subgraph.

> - This command can be used to create a subgraph in Subgraph Studio by passing in graph: `init --product subgraph-studio`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `graph init` command can also create a subgraph in Subgraph Studio by passing in `--product subgraph-studio`.
```

- If you already have a smart contract deployed to your preferred network, you can bootstrap a new subgraph from that contract to get started.

> ## Create a Subgraph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a subgraph
```

  <SUBGRAPH_SLUG> [<DIRECTORY>]
```

- The command tries to retrieve the contract ABI from Etherscan.

>   - The `graph-cli` relies on a public RPC endpoint. While occasional failures are expected, retries typically resolve this issue. If failures persist, consider using a local ABI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The Graph CLI relies on a public RPC endpoint. While occasional failures are expected, retries typically resolve this issue. If failures persist, consider using a local ABI.
```
(just to be consistent)

- If any of the optional arguments are missing, it guides you through an interactive form.

- The `<SUBGRAPH_SLUG>` is the ID of your subgraph in [Subgraph Studio](https://thegraph.com/studio/). It can be found on your subgraph details page.

### From an example subgraph

The following command initializes a new project from an example subgraph:

```sh

> --studio <SUBGRAPH_SLUG> --from-example=example-subgraph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
graph init --studio <SUBGRAPH_SLUG> --from-example=example-subgraph
```

```

- The [example subgraph](https://github.com/graphprotocol/example-subgraph) is based on the Gravity contract by Dani Grant, which manages user avatars and emits `NewGravatar` or `UpdateGravatar` events whenever avatars are created or updated.

> - The subgraph handles these events by writing `Gravatar` entities to the Graph Node store and ensuring these are updated according to the events

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The subgraph handles these events by writing `Gravatar` entities to the Graph Node store and ensuring these are updated according to the events.
```

> ### Add new dataSources to an existing subgraph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add new `dataSource`s to an existing subgraph
```

> ### Add new `dataSources` to an existing subgraph

Reviewer 2: Is this section (and its children) really meant to be under "Create a subgraph"?

Author: @benface I did not receive feedback indicating otherwise

Reviewer 2: What I mean is that you are changing this heading from an h2 to an h3. Is that intentional? It doesn't make sense to me.

> Since `v0.31.0`, the `graph-cli` supports adding new dataSources to an existing subgraph through the `graph add` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since `v0.31.0`, the Graph CLI supports adding new `dataSources` to an existing subgraph through the `graph add` command:
```

      --network-file <path>     Networks config file path (default: "./networks.json")
```

#### Specifics

> The `add` command will fetch the ABI from Etherscan unless an ABI path is specified with the `--abi` option. Subsequently, it will create a new `dataSource` like `graph init` command creates a dataSource `--from-contract` and will update the schema and mappings accordingly. This allows you to index implementation contracts from their proxy contracts.

Reviewer 2: There's something wonky in this sentence and I'm not sure how to fix it:

> Subsequently, it will create a new `dataSource` like `graph init` command creates a dataSource `--from-contract` and will update the schema and mappings accordingly.

- The `--merge-entities` option identifies how the developer would like to handle `entity` and `event` name conflicts:

> - If `true`: the new `dataSource` should use existing `eventHandlers` & `entities`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If `true`: the new `dataSource` should use existing `eventHandlers` & `entities`.
```

> - If `false`: a new `entity` & `event` handler should be created with `${dataSourceName}{EventName}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If `false`: a new `entity` & `event` handler should be created with `${dataSourceName}{EventName}`.
```

> - The contract `address `will be written to the `networks.json` for the relevant network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The contract `address` will be written to the `networks.json` for the relevant network.
```

> > Note: When using the interactive cli, after successfully running `graph init`, you'll be prompted to add a new `dataSource`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: When using the interactive CLI, after successfully running `graph init`, you'll be prompted to add a new `dataSource`.
```

> ## Components of a Subgraph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Components of a subgraph
```

> ### The Subgraph Manifest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The subgraph manifest
```

> The subgraph manifest, `subgraph.yaml`, defines the smart contracts your subgraph will index, the events from these contracts to pay attention to, and how to map event data to entities that Graph Node stores and allows to query.

Reviewer: `smart contracts` could be updated to `smart contracts & network`

The **subgraph definition** consists of the following files:

- `subgraph.yaml`: Contains the subgraph manifest

- `schema.graphql`: a GraphQL schema defining the data stored for your subgraph and how to query it via GraphQL.

> - `mapping.ts`: [AssemblyScript Mappings](https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript) code that translates event data into entities defined in your schema (e.g. `mapping.ts` in this guide)

Reviewer 2: There are inconsistencies between these 3 bullet points:
- Two of them have a capital letter after the `:` (though for `AssemblyScript` it could just be because it's a proper noun), while the other one has a lowercase letter.
- The same two bullet points don't have a period at the end of their sentence, while the other one does.

A single subgraph can:

> - Index data from multiple smart contracts (but not multiple networks)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Index data from multiple smart contracts (but not multiple networks).
```

> - Index data from multiple smart contracts (but not multiple networks)

Reviewer: This could also be added
`- Index data from IPFS files using File Data Sources`

> - Add an entry for each contract that requires indexing to the `dataSources array`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add an entry for each contract that requires indexing to the `dataSources` array.
```

      --network-file <path>     Networks config file path (default: "./networks.json")
```

#### Specifics

> The `add` command will fetch the ABI from Etherscan (unless an ABI path is specified with the `--abi` option) and creates a new `dataSource`, similar to how the `graph init` command creates a `dataSource` `--from-contract`, updating the schema and mappings accordingly. This allows you to index implementation contracts from their proxy contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `graph add` command will fetch the ABI from Etherscan (unless an ABI path is specified with the `--abi` option) and creates a new `dataSource`, similar to how the `graph init` command creates a `dataSource` `--from-contract`, updating the schema and mappings accordingly. This allows you to index implementation contracts from their proxy contracts.
```

- The `--merge-entities` option identifies how the developer would like to handle `entity` and `event` name conflicts:

  - If `true`: the new `dataSource` should use existing `eventHandlers` & `entities`.

>   - If `false`: a new `entity` & `event` handler should be created with `${dataSourceName}{EventName}`.

Reviewer 2: Is the difference in pluralization between this line and the previous one intentional?
- `entities` vs `entity`
- `event` handler vs `eventHandlers` (also note that "handler" is not part of the inline code in the second line)

Author: @benface I assume that it is since it was not noted as an issue

Details for the example above:

> - ` global0X128` is the declared `eth_call`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `global0X128` is the declared `eth_call`.
```
